
When to go for arrays:

    If we know the size of arrays in advance, highly recommended to go for arrays

        as in collections we are getting growable data structure, but these data structures we aren't
            getting free of cost.

        we are lagging behind in performance

        -------

        Example:

            suppose we want to insert an extra element in an ArrayList

                it's not simple as there will be an another cell created and there the new element will be stored

                once ArrayList reaches it's max capacity, a bigger length ArrayList is created internally

                    all the elements from the actual ArrayList will be copied to this new bigger ArrayList

                        then finally the 11th element will be inserted

                        reassign the reference variable to this new object and old object is automatically
                            applicable for garbage collection

-------

Major differences between Arrays and Collection classes:

    Arrays:

        1. Arrays are fixed in size

        2. With respect to memory arrays are not recommended to use

            sometimes memory locations go waste, and sometimes more memory locations are required then defined

        3. Performance wise arrays are too good

        4. Arrays can hold only homogeneous data

        5. Underlying data structure not available

            ready-made method support is not available

        6. By using arrays we can hold primitive and object data types

            e.g.
                int []
                Integer []

    -------

    Collections:

        1. These are growable in nature

        2. With respect to memory collections are recommended

        3. Performance wise collections are not recommended

        4. Collections can hold both homogeneous and heterogeneous data

        5. Every collection class is based on some standard data structure

            therefore for every collection, ready-made method support is available.

        6. Collections can hold only objects but not primitives
